So how do we actually go about
performing recognition with the models
we just created?
>> Suppose we have
a set of observations,
O, that represent the samples in
an example we want to recognize.
We'll create something called the
Viterbi Trellis to see how likely each
model generated the samples in O.
The one that gives us the highest
probability will be considered
the proper match.
However, we don't know the exact
sequence of states that created
the output.
Those are hidden, so we'll need to
go through all the possibilities.
>> That sounds like it would be long,
but maybe we can simplify it as we go.
>> Okay, here's the sequence of delta ys
we collected in the example we want to
recognize as I or we.
>> So our overall goal is to
find P of O given lambda I or
the probability of our observation
sequence given our model of I.
>> Correct.
Here's how we start the trellis.
We have one row for
each state in the model and
we want to look at which state
we're in at each time step.
>> Well at the beginning we have
to start in state 1, correct?
>> That's right.
>> Okay, then at t equal to 2,
we can stay in state 1 or
transition to state 2, but
we can't reach state 3 yet.
Looks like we've already
eliminated some of this trellis.
>> Yes, the transition
probabilities in these models
really limit where you
can be at any given time.
Perhaps we can have a quiz on that idea.